Git Commands

1. Git Command to configure user name and email
		git config --global user.name "Sam Smith"
		git config --global user.email sam@example.com

2. Git Command to Initialize or create a new local repository
		git init

3. Git command to download or clone a project from git hub repository
		git clone repository url

4. Git command to add a single file to staging 
		git add <file path>

5. Git command to add the entire project to staging
		git add .

6. Git command to commit you changes to project
		git commit -m " Commit Message"

7. Git command to push your changes to the remote repository (Master)
		git push -u origin master

8. Git command to push your changes to the remote repository (Branch)
		git push -u origin branchname   **** In real time we will directly push our changes to branch and not in master **** 

9. Git command which will list out the files you've changed/added recently
		git status

10. Git command to connect your local repository to a remote repository
		git remote add origin ÅgrepositoryURLÅh

11. Git command to remove the existing connection to the remote repository
		git remote rm origin 

12. Git command to list out the branches created 
		git fetch

13. Git command to switch to a branch from master
		git checkout branchname

14. Git command to switch to a master from branch
		git checkout master

15. Git command to delete the branch
		git branch -d branchname

16. Git command to merge a different branch to your active branch
		git merge <branchname>

17. Git command to pull the updated copy from master
		git pull origin master

18. Git command to forcefully push the code to master
		git push --force

19. Git day to day activity 
		Accept the collaberator invitation on day 1 of your project , Clone the project , Import the project to your eclipse , Create a own branch and checkout to you branch
		On Daily basis
		Git pull origin master-------------Resolving conflicts , if any
		Git add
		Git commit ñm ?Commands
		Git push ñu origin branch name

20. Steps on how to give collaberator access in Git Hub	
		Open Git hub ----- > Go to settings ----- > Left side of the page we will have collaberators option ----- > Click on that and enter the git user name for which we are going to give collaberator access

21. Steps on how to resolve conflicts
		First time if we are giving pull request then we will not face any conflicts because everyone has the same master code.If two persons/branches try to modify or add at the same line of code and when both of them try to push it to git then at that time conflicts will occur.


    Steps to resolve it:
    	git pull origin master
    	Resolve conflict by making changes in eclipse
    	git status 
	git add .
    	git commit
    	git push -u origin branch name
	Finally in Git hub give pull request to Master and merge the code with master

22. Git command to go back to the previous changes
	git reset

23. What is the use of Git Stash command?

	Git stash temporarily saves/stashes the changes we have done in our working copy so that we can reapply/rework on it later


		

		